Good afternoon and welcome to
Capturing from... Thank you.
Yes, I can push a button.
Capturing from the camera
using AV Foundation on iOS 5.
What you're about to hear is not a
repeat of last year's presentation.
This is all new stuff,
so it's worthwhile being here.
What are you going to learn about?
Which iOS 5 capture
APIs to use in your app?
There are several choices.
The AV Foundation capture
programming model.
We'll just discuss it briefly.
And we'll delve deeply into
iOS 5 performance improvements
we've made in AV Foundation,
which I think you're really going
to like because they're going to
equal more performance for your apps.
Finally, we'll talk about some
API enhancements that are not
strictly performance related.
For this session,
we have four pieces of sample code.
And before the session,
I went and looked and I think two,
maybe three of them were
already published and there
was a holdup on one of them.
But if it's not up there by now,
check tomorrow and all four of
those should be ready to go.
First,
let's take a look at the overview of our
technology framework and where we sit.
You'll notice the green ones,
these refer to the frameworks
that are below the UI level.
AV Foundation,
the focus of our talk today,
sits below that line.
But at the top,
you have some other choices,
namely UI kits,
UI image picker controller.
Apple's Camera app is built on
that technology and the UI image
picker controller itself is
built on top of AV Foundation.
The UI Image Picker Controller offers
simple programmatic access to the camera.
API for high, medium,
or low quality recording.
Hideable Camera Controls UI.
So if you're familiar with
the camera look and feel with
the control bar at the bottom,
that's what you'll be getting
when you use this view.
And if all you need is a
simple view controller,
this is the API for you to use because
you get a lot of bang for your buck.
You can also hide that Camera Controls
UI if you want to build your own
buttons and do simple things like
take a picture or start video capture,
which you get programmatic access to.
Or if you want to set the camera device,
that is switch cameras
between back and front,
or control whether the
flash should fire or not.
You can also touch on the view that's
managed by the UI image picker controller
so that you get the touch to focus and
touch to expose behavior that Camera app
does and you get all of that for free.
Also, new in iOS 5,
if you touch and hold on that
UI image picker controller view,
it will lock and hold AE or AF.
So given that there's all of that
power available for very little code,
why might you want to use
AV Foundation for capture?
Again, the lower level framework.
If you need full access to the camera,
you'll want to use AV Foundation because
of the additional features
that it provides you.
You can independently control focus,
exposure, and white balance controls,
independently lock any of those things,
and select independent points of
interest for focus or exposure.
So for instance,
if you want to expose on one section
of the frame while focusing on another,
you have the power to do that,
whereas in the UI image
picker controller,
focus and exposure are always
tied to the same point.
You also get access to video
frame data in your process.
These are video frames with accurate
timestamps telling you exactly
when the frames came in on the bus.
uses the Perframe metadata
to tell you things about the
images that are captured,
like their exposure levels, for instance.
And you can configure the output
format so that instead of getting
just the native pixel format,
you can get a different pixel format
that works better for your app,
such as BGRA.
You also can configure the
frame rate of the camera.
So if you don't need full frame rate,
you have some control over how
many frames per second you expect
to get in your application.
And finally, when getting access to video
frame data in your app,
you can configure the resolution so
that if you don't need full 720p,
you can get a lower frame,
a lower resolution that works
well for your processing.
Also, AV Foundation provides
some flexible output.
When capturing still images,
you don't have to capture to JPEG.
You can capture to uncompressed
formats like YUV and RGB and
insert your own EXIF metadata
before writing to the camera roll.
When doing QuickTime movie recording,
you have some additional powerful
features like inserting metadata into
the movie or locking the orientation.
So for instance,
if you want your app to be
landscape only and enforce that
you only take landscape movies,
you can set that orientation lock.
Also,
you get a layer-based video preview,
which you can insert into a core
animation layer tree and get all of the
benefits that core animation provides
in its implicit and explicit animation.
Also, you get some control with that
layer about how it displays
within its layer bounds,
whether it fits, fills, or stretches.
Finally, some ancillary properties
like audio level metering.
And of course,
access to audio sample data.
So let's take a high look at the
AV Foundation capture programming model.
We view the world as inputs and outputs.
If you've got a phone,
it's got a camera on it, maybe two,
and from those cameras you might want to
do several things like see a real-time
preview of what the camera is seeing
and have it delivered to you as a core
animation layer or get high-quality
still images from the camera.
Or as we were just talking
about getting video data,
per frame video data
into your application.
Or perhaps simply write
to a QuickTime movie.
Likewise,
all of our iOS 5 supported devices
have built-in microphones from
which you might want to process the
audio data in real time or write
the output to a QuickTime movie
along with the video or separately.
This is what the world
looks like to AV Capture.
You have AV Capture
inputs at the top level.
They're the ones that provide the data.
You have an AV Capture
session in the middle.
The session is the guy that gets inputs
added to it and outputs added to it.
And it controls the flow of data
such that even if you've added
inputs and outputs to the session,
nobody delivers data or consumes data
until you tell it to start running.
AV capture session is also
the place that tells you if
there were any runtime errors.
On the output side,
we have some concrete subclasses of
the AV Capture Output superclass.
Still image output, video data output,
audio data output, and movie file output.
The video preview is a
little bit different.
I drew it in orange there to highlight
that it does not descend from AV Capture
Output like the rest of the classes do.
It is a subclass of CA Layer,
so it can be inserted into
a Core Animation Layer tree.
Also, the ownership model is such that
the session owns its outputs,
but it does not own its layer.
The layer owns it.
So if you want to have a layer that
you insert into a view hierarchy,
you can attach a session
to it and forget about it.
And when the layer tree
disposes of itself,
it will clean up the session as well.
We're going to cover four
capture use cases today.
And we'll take these one by one.
The first of which is processing
video frames from the camera
and rendering with OpenGL.
I hope you like augmented
reality apps because we're
going to do a lot of that today.
So let me call up Sylvain Neuse who's
going to help me with a chroma key demo.
And Sylvain is going to
find me on the screen.
And he's going to touch on the
interface to sample a color.
And when he samples that color,
he's also going to expose and do
a white balance and then lock.
So that he's now locking--
there's no focus on the iPad 2,
but if there were focus,
it would lock focus as well.
Locking exposure, white balance,
and focus.
And then he goes and selects a
background image and uses what
he just found as a background
substitution to do a chroma key.
And using this, he's able to substitute
a background image.
And you'll see the buttons at the bottom.
He can snap a picture or record a movie.
But let's also take a look
at the options on the left.
He's got a fast button.
Don't you wish your
app had a fast button?
Let's turn fast off.
Okay, so when Fast is off,
let's look at the frame
rate up at the top.
His FIPS is hovering around 20 right now.
He's doing 720p and he's doing
a lot of heavy work in OpenGL.
He has a shader running that's
doing the background substitution.
Okay, let's turn the Fast button back on.
And now we go back up to 25.
We're in 25 because we're in low light.
It actually goes up to 30 if we
had a little more light since we're
letting the device throttle down to a
reasonable frame rate for low light.
So he's able to get 30 frames per
second capture with no dropped
frames doing some pretty heavy
OpenGL work due to the fast button.
And the fast button is all about
improvements that we've made in iOS 5.
Thank you, Sylvain.
All right, so let's talk about
what we just did there.
We started with an iPad
and used the back camera.
and captured video frames using that
video data output because we wanted
the frames into the client process.
And then everything after that point
happened in custom client code,
processing and rendering with OpenGL,
including the preview that you saw.
AV Foundation was not
handling that preview at all.
So our involvement as far as
AV Foundation is concerned,
we had a device and an input
and a session and a video
data output delivering sample
buffers and that was it.
Then we got out of the way.
To create an AV capture session,
you simply allocate an edit and
set a session preset to determine
the baseline quality that will
be delivered to your outputs.
For this demo,
Sylvain chose 1280 by 720 so we could
highlight the kinds of performance that
we're getting with these improvements
in iOS 5 at a very high resolution.
He then found a suitable
AV capture device.
He chose the default.
The default device on all iOS
devices is the back camera.
He then created and
added the device input.
He associated a device input with the
device and then called session add input.
Then he was done with the input side.
For the video output side,
he alloc'd and annited a
AV Capture video data output,
added it to the session.
and then performed some
minimal configuration
before starting the session.
He set the output format to BGRA since
that's a format that OpenGL likes.
And then set a delegate
on the video data output.
Our AV Capture data outputs
have fancy delegates.
So it's not just a delegate callback,
it's a delegate with a queue.
So you call
setSampleBufferDelegate queue.
And with that queue, you're telling it,
when you call me back with video frames,
I want them to be delivered
on this dispatch queue.
So you have some control over where
and how these frames come to you
by specifying the queue on which
they are delivered to your process.
Then he called sessionStartRunning
and he was up and going.
Inside the delegate callback,
for each video frame,
you're delivered a capture output,
did output sample buffer from
connection call in which you're free
to do whatever processing you need.
I also mentioned that when
he touched on the screen,
he was sampling a pixel
and before he did that,
he was performing an auto
exposure and then locking.
To lock auto exposure,
you first need to lock the device
for configuration and then you
can set any of the properties on
the device such as focus mode,
exposure mode, white balance mode.
And when you're done,
don't forget to unlock the
device for configuration.
Now to talk about the Fast Button and
what exactly was going on there and
the great improvements we've made with
bridging between Core Video and OpenGL,
I'd like to invite up
Brandon Corey to talk about that.
So I'm here to talk
about the fast button.
To make things faster,
to allow people to interact with
the GPU better for capture and
for all of our AV Foundation APIs,
we added a new API called
CVOpenGLES Texture Cache.
Now, the intent of this was to provide
a CF type that allows clients to
bridge Core Video Pixel Buffers
to OpenGL ES textures.
And the idea is to avoid
copies to and from the GPU.
So for something like that 720p video,
if you were doing BGRA and you wanted
to get that data in and out of the GPU,
you know,
you're talking in the neighborhood of 220
megabytes a second of copying and not to
mention twiddling data back and forth.
And, you know,
it's a significant overhead that we
like to avoid if at all possible.
The other thing we like to do is
allow you to recycle textures so
that GL doesn't have to spend so
much time maintaining its state every
time you create and use new textures.
I wanted to point out that this is only
supported in OpenGL ES 2.0 and later,
so you can use it with
all your fun shaders,
but you will have to use
2.0 and not the older ES,
which is kind of a compatibility mode.
And all the API is contained
in the header above there,
the Core Video CV OpenGL ES Texture
Cache.
So this is what the
API itself looks like.
This is the main API that you'll
call once you've created the texture
cache to bind an actual pixel
buffer to an OpenGL ES texture.
So to kind of go through this,
we have an OpenGL ES texture cache ref,
which is one you'll
have previously created.
Then we have here a pixel buffer,
which is the one you would be
getting from your output delegate
callback in the capture case.
[Transcript missing]
So kind of an overview here,
the standard texture binding
that you would use with OpenGL.
You have a CV pixel buffer here.
And OpenGL contains these textures,
texture objects which are backed
by texture images that you would
get if you use GL Gen Textures.
So normally to upload data to a texture,
you'd create your texture.
You would get the base address
from your pixel buffer.
And notice that's a void star there.
It's essentially raw
data that you're getting.
And you're calling the GL text image
2D with your appropriate parameters.
And at the end there,
the actual pixel data itself.
And what happens here is we do
the equivalent of a mem copy with
some twiddling and such to get
this data into the texture image,
which OpenGL ES was sourced from.
Now for the CVOpenGL ES texture binding,
The idea here is you have the
equivalent extremely long function name,
CBOpenGLESTextureCacheCreateTextureFromIm
age,
with all the very
similar parameters there.
But you'll notice here that we actually
pass in the pixel buffer itself and
not the pointer to the raw data.
And we're kind of moving this model so
when you call in with the pixel buffer,
you'll end up getting back a texture
that you would use in PointOpenGLES at.
And what this does is it allows us to
avoid this copy by binding that CV pixel
buffer directly into the texture object.
So to get,
that's all fine if you just want to get
your data to the screen and you just
want to do some processing before there,
but what if you want to
get your data back out?
Now normally with OpenGL,
for those who aren't familiar with this,
we use what's called a frame
buffer object to encapsulate
what OpenGL draws into.
Now normally your frame buffer
object can be your screen,
but if you want to get the data back out,
you can do this in one of two ways.
You can create and
attach a render buffer,
which is essentially a data-backed
buffer that GL can write into,
or you can create and attach a
texture to that frame buffer object.
And that's usually used for something
like if you wanted to feed that back
in for another pass of rendering.
And to get the data back out,
you would then use GL read pixels
in the case of a render buffer or
GL text image 2D if you wanted to move
the data from one texture to another.
And these all are attached with
this GL color attachment as
part of the frame buffer object.
Note, the diagram there shows multiple
color attachments and our
implementation supports the first,
but you really only
need one in this case.
So normally here you have the
OpenGL ES render and you'd
have the equivalent of a
texture render buffer object.
And what you would do is you would render
into this texture and then you would
use GL read pixels to pull the data back
out of this texture into your buffer.
But again,
that's going to incur the equivalent
or worse than a mem copy because
the data will have to be pulled
back out and also twizzled.
And in this case,
you can have OpenGL rendered
directly into your iOS
Surface-backed pixel buffer.
And you can completely avoid
that GL read pixels call.
And this is a similar binding to attach
a texture to a frame buffer object where
you would create the image in the very
same way you would for the input case.
But when you get that texture back,
you can bind it to the frame
buffer and attach it to the
actual frame buffer object here.
And it would be the same or very
similar to if you had GL render
into a texture that it created.
But in this case,
it's rendering directly into your buffer.
So a couple usage notes here.
We kind of have a special
buffer type to handle this.
And all the buffers from AV Capture
and AV Asset Reader are created
with the appropriate formatting.
So if you use either of those,
you don't really need to do anything.
If you create your own pools, however,
you must pass this
KCVPixelBufferIOSurfaceProperties key
as a pixel buffer attribute when you
create your buffer or your buffer pool.
And that'll make sure that everything's
formatted correctly so we can apply
an efficient attachment and get
that fast speed that you'd like.
And if you use AV Asset Reader,
be sure to use the pixel
buffer pool it provides.
Not only will it give you this particular
backing that you need in this case,
but on top of which,
there could be other alignment issues
and such that the encoder might need.
So it's always a good idea to
use that whenever possible.
As I mentioned earlier, BGRA, 420V,
and 420F are supported.
And OpenGLS also now
supports GLRED and GLRG,
which are the single-channel
render targets.
So instead of rendering into BGRA,
you can render using GLRED and GLRG.
And I just wanted to mention that
those are only available on the iPad,
too,
but they're definitely cool to play with.
And with that,
I'd like to turn it back over to Brad.
Thank you.
So if you want automatic
10 to 15 FIPS more in your
process and you're using GPU,
you might want to check that API out.
AV Capture Video Data Output has some
peculiarities that I'd like to address.
That sample buffer delegate queue
that I talked about earlier,
it needs to be a serial dispatch queue.
If you're familiar with GCD,
you know that there are
two kinds of queues.
There's concurrent
queues and serial queues.
Well, video frames are coming in
in a particular order and you
want them delivered to your
callback in that same order.
If you use a concurrent queue,
they might be delivered to you out
of order and that would be hilarious.
So make sure that you use
a serial dispatch queue
and do not ever pass dispatch get current
queue because you may think you're on
a serial queue but you don't really
know if you use get current queue.
So always use a known
queue by making your own,
which is of the serial type,
or use dispatch get main queue,
which is always a serial queue.
By default,
we're going to give the buffers to
you in the camera's most efficient
format because we want you to get the
most efficient pipeline possible and
use the least amount of CPU possible.
But if you need it in a different format,
such as BGRA, which is not the default,
you can use the video settings
property to override that behavior.
Both Core Graphics and
OpenGL work very well with BGRA.
So here are some performance tips.
You can also set the min frame
duration property if you want
to cap the max frame rate.
Probably scratching your heads,
that sounds backwards.
But to get a frame rate,
you need to talk about
the one over the duration.
And in our APIs,
we refer to things in terms of durations,
not rates.
So if you want a max frame
rate of 15 frames a second,
you need to tell us to set the
min frame duration to one over 15.
You configure the session to output
the lowest practical resolution.
So if you only need 320
by 240 or something small,
don't set it to session preset high
because you're going to be getting
way more pixels than you can process.
Also, there's a property called always
discards late video frames.
Set this to yes, which is the default,
if you want us to efficiently drop
late video frames before they're
even delivered to your process.
So if all you're doing is say preview,
you definitely want to set this to
yes because we won't bother trying
to message frames to you into your
process that you're too late for anyway.
You might want to set it to no, however,
if you're trying to write a movie
file and late frames are okay.
Your sample buffer delegate
callback must be fast.
That's the main thing.
Be as efficient as you can in your
callback and don't waste time.
Let's talk about the supported
pixel formats for video data output.
The default is 420V.
If you're not familiar with this format,
it is a planar,
a bi-planar YUV 420 video format.
So that means the luma and the
chroma are in separate planes,
separate sections of the buffer.
And the chroma is subsampled in both
the horizontal and vertical direction.
The V is for video range,
which means the samples that you get
are clamped to the range of 16 to 235.
This is common in video processing
so that you have some leeway in
the 0 to 15 area for super black,
super white.
And this is the default format
on all iOS 5 supported cameras.
We also have a variant
of 4.2.0 called 4.2.0f,
which is just like 4.2.0v
except it has an f.
And the f is for full range color.
That is,
the full range of 0 to 255 is used.
And this is our default when you're
using the photo preset because when
you're doing still image capture,
you want full range and not video range.
We also support BGRA, which is a blue,
green, red alpha format,
and it's 8 bits per pixel,
which is more than twice the
bandwidth of the YUV flavors.
So it does come at a cost.
If you can avoid using
BGRA and do your work in YUV,
it's more efficient from
a bandwidth standpoint.
Now let's talk about some specific iOS
5 enhancements on top of the core video
bridging that Brandon already mentioned.
In iOS 5,
we support rotation for CVPixel buffers.
Rotation is hardware accelerated.
And you can use AV Capture Connection's
set video orientation property.
So for instance, by default,
you're going to get
landscape-oriented video frames,
but if you need to pass them
off to a library that needs
them portrait-oriented,
we can do that work for
you using the hardware.
All four video capture
orientations are supported:
Portrait, Upside Down, Landscape Right,
and Landscape Left,
but we do not support arbitrary
rotation to weird angles.
The default is still non-rotated buffers.
So for the front camera, by default,
they're gonna be landscape left,
and for the back camera, landscape right.
Also new in iOS 5 is support for
pinning of minimum frame rate.
Up to now, we've only let you specify
the max to throttle.
But by giving you access to
minimum frame rate pinning,
you can now create a fixed frame
rate capture if you need to.
You can do this using
AV Capture Connection's
setMaxFrameDuration property.
Again, we express it using duration,
not frame rate.
So to cap the min frame rate,
you set the max frame duration
to one over what you want.
But here's a caveat:
fixed frame rate captures can result
in reduced image quality in low light.
By default,
we like to throttle down the camera
in low light to get longer exposures
and better looking pictures.
If you pin the frame rate
to a high frame rate,
you might get worse looking
pictures in low light.
Also, you can use the AV Capture Sessions
session preset property to affect the
resolution of the video data output.
Here are the currently
supported session presets.
All but the top three should be familiar
to you if you've used this API before.
High, medium, low, and then some named
presets and photo mode,
all which have their purposes.
And then those three at the
bottom are new in iOS 5.
Now we allow on all of
our devices 352 by 288.
So if you have a streaming
application and you only need
SIF quality video frames,
we can deliver them in that resolution.
And also I'll be talking a
little bit more about iframe,
which is an important format for
Apple and an interesting format for
you if you plan to be doing a lot of
editing with your captured movies.
Here is the grid of
supported resolutions.
You'll note that high or the high
quality preset means different
things on different devices.
If you have an iPhone 3GS,
it only supports up to SD video,
so the highest quality
it gives you is VGA.
Whereas the back cameras on iPhone 4 and
iPad 2 and iPod Touch can give you 720p.
Medium and low mean the
same thing on all platforms.
And then I'd like to call out a
peculiarity here at the bottom for photo.
Now when you use the photo preset
and you capture still images from it,
you get the full resolution.
5 megapixels or 2 megapixels
or whatever that happens to be.
But if you're using the photo
preset with video data output,
it's a little different.
We have some special considerations here
because these were added in iOS 4.3.
The preset for photo delivers full
res out the still image output,
but only preview-sized buffers
out the video data output.
We can't give you full res
stills for every video frame.
The bandwidth would be too intolerable.
But you get preview-sized buffers
out the video data output,
which are sized to about
the size of the screen,
but with exactly the same aspect
ratio as the full-sized buffers.
So if you have any processing to do,
lining up or choosing where to set focus,
you can do those on the preview-sized
buffers in your video data output
callback and then still snap
pictures using the still image
output whenever you want to.
And as I mentioned,
the aspect ratio is unchanged.
Continuing along with our
supported resolutions grid,
you'll note that every single
device and every camera supports
the SD or lower resolutions,
but only the back cameras
support the HD modes.
All right,
now let's delve into that iframe thing.
What is iframe?
Well, to explain what iframe is,
I need to tell you what iframes are.
Little i,
big F is a little different than
what iframes are in general.
This is a term used in video
compression to talk about dependencies
between these video frames.
Iframes or intraframes have no
dependencies on any other frames.
They can be decoded individually and they
don't rely on any frames before or after.
P-frames are predictive.
That means in order to be decoded,
they need to search back to
their previous iframe in order to
fully reconstitute the picture.
B-frames are even worse.
They can predict in either direction
and they're stored out of order.
These are added levels of
complexity to get smaller files.
So what is iFrame?
Well, iFrame is an Apple term for
Apple ecosystem-friendly video.
It's a format that we've given out to
third-party camera and camcorder vendors.
There are already 30-plus
camcorders and cameras on the
market that support iFrame.
It means H.264 iframe-only video
plus AAC or PCM at a constant
frame rate of 2997 or 25 on the
iOS products we support 2997.
And the data rate is quite high.
It's 30 megabits for quarter
HD or 40 megabits for 720p.
[Transcript missing]
It is supported on all iOS
devices with HD cameras.
Let's move on to the second capture case.
And to show that,
I'm going to call up Matthew Calhoun
to show us Rosie Writer.
Rosie Ryder is yet another
augmented reality application.
Something you should know about Matthew,
he's a very cheerful guy.
He's a very friendly guy.
I like to say that he views the
world through rose-colored glasses.
So he wrote an app that really does view
the world through rose-colored glasses.
It's taking the video
from the back camera.
It's processing every pixel of every
buffer and applying a tint to them so
that they come out kind of rosy-colored.
And then he's recording.
So he's actually already
started the recording there.
And you can see he's getting
25 frames per second.
That's, again,
only because we're in low light.
It will actually do a full 30
fips without dropping any frames.
So applying processing to every pixel,
doing a real-time preview using OpenGL,
and writing a quick-time
movie at 30 frames a second,
720p, and we can view that live.
That video.
It's processing every pixel of every
-- So it was doing audio as well,
obviously.
Thank you, Matthew.
Let's talk about how we did that.
Okay, Rosie Writer again used the
back camera from the iPad.
to get video data output into
his process and also audio data.
and Write to a QuickTime Movie,
but he wasn't using the movie file
output because that doesn't let you
get at the buffers to process them.
So what does this look like to us?
Well,
you still have a session in the middle.
You still have device inputs for
the camera and for the microphone.
You have data outputs.
But then there are some new classes that
are not strictly part of AV Capture,
but they are part of AV Foundation and
it's called AV Asset Writer.
AV Asset Writer has an
input for video and audio.
To talk about AV Asset Writer,
I first need to talk
about what an AV Asset is.
AV Asset, which is defined in AV Asset.h,
is how we abstract a media
asset on our platform.
So it can be URL based or stream based.
It can be inspected for properties.
If you want to play one,
you would use an AV player.
If you want to read
one in an offline mode,
you would use AV Asset Reader.
If you want to do a full file
export of one of these assets,
you would use AV Asset Export Session.
And for our use, you can write them using
an AV Asset Writer.
To create one of them,
you alloc and init one with the
file type that you want to write to.
In Matthew's app,
we were writing a QuickTime movie.
And then there's a little bit of setup
to create the inputs for each kind
of input data you'll be feeding it.
In this slide,
I put the video input setup.
So you tell it you're going to
be providing it video input,
and you give it some output
settings to tell it what kind
of output it should produce,
what format it should produce.
You set the expect media data in real
time flag to yes so that it knows that
you're going to be in the real-time
capture scenario and so it doesn't do
additional buffering on your behalf.
And then you add the input
to your AV asset writer,
start up your delegate
as you normally do,
and start the session running.
Inside your delegate callback,
after you do your processing,
you would call video
input a pen sample buffer.
That's it.
You're now writing the movie
one frame at a time from
within the delegate callbacks.
So now let's talk about
which one you would use.
We have two classes that sound
like they do the same thing,
Writer and Movie File Output.
Well, Movie File Output has some
features all of its own.
It requires no setup.
You can't specify an output
settings on it because it inherits
them from the session preset.
It's a flexible object in that you
can record multiple movies from it.
You can start one, then stop,
and then reuse that same movie file
output to do multiple recordings.
It also supports some limiting like
file size limiting or duration,
and it will automatically
stop the recording when any
of those limits are tripped.
But it does not allow for
client access to the buffers
before writing them to disk.
So if you use a movie file output,
you get what the camera sees.
You don't get to process the frames.
AV Asset Writer, on the other hand,
is a general purpose writing utility
that can be used for the non-real-time
case or the real-time case.
So it does require setup of
output settings because it doesn't
know what to produce by default.
It's a one-shot writer.
You can't use this to
record multiple movie files.
Once you've finished a movie
file with an asset writer,
you need to throw it
away and make a new one.
But it does allow for client access
to the video buffers because they
come into your process in the video
data output and audio data output,
and then you send them along
their way to the asset writer
in your delegate callback.
Be aware, though,
that asset writer does incur some
more overhead than movie file output.
So if you don't intend
to do any processing,
you will want to use
the movie file output.
Here's what the sample video
settings might look like that you
would feed to the asset writer.
And these are defined
in AVVideoSettings.h.
You can tell it what codec you want.
I chose H.264.
You can specify a width and a height.
You can also give it a dictionary
of compressor-specific properties.
For H.264, you can specify a bit rate.
I chose 10.5 megabits per second.
You can also specify a max keyframe rate
interval so that it will force a keyframe
or an iframe at least once a second.
You can also specify profile level.
And now let's look at
the equivalent for audio.
The audio settings look like this.
You can specify a layout,
so is it stereo, is it mono,
the format that you expect it to produce,
AAC for instance, the bit rate,
number of channels, sample rate,
and the layout.
So lastly with AV Asset Writer,
let's talk about some do's and don'ts.
Do set that expects media data in
real time to yes when you're using
AV Asset Writer input with capture.
Otherwise, it will do some buffering
and try to do some optimal
interleaving of video and audio,
and you will drop more frames.
Also,
set AV Asset Writer's movie fragment
interval to a non-zero value if you
want to preserve your recordings
in the event of an interruption.
I'll talk more about that in a minute.
Also,
that always discards late video frames.
Set it to no.
Earlier I said set it to yes.
But for this case,
I'm saying set it to no because
you want to capture a movie file.
So even if the frames are a little bit
late and there's a possibility that
you can still write them to the movie,
you would want them.
Don't hold on to those sample
buffers outside the callback.
So don't do your own buffering.
Append them to the asset
writer within the callback.
And again,
don't take too long inside your callback.
I just mentioned movie fragments.
This is a neat technology that helps in
the event of crashes or interruptions.
Interruptions are unpredictable.
You don't know,
this is a phone that you're dealing with.
You don't know when you're
going to get a call.
So if you're in the
middle of a movie file,
you really want that movie
file to succeed even if it
gets interrupted or crashed.
Here's what a movie file looks like
that you would get off the web.
It has a movie header at the top
which tells where all of the data is.
It has sample offsets that say find
sample N at this offset in the file
and the actual data is afterwards.
It's called a fast
start quick time movie.
When we're capturing,
we can't write fast start
movies because we don't know how
long the movie is going to be.
We don't know where all
the samples are yet.
So we have to put the movie data up
front and only when they end the capture
do we append the header to the end.
You see the problem with this strategy.
If you crash or you are interrupted
in the middle of your recording
and you haven't had a chance to
lay down that movie header yet,
you've got a big file that's unreadable.
Our solution for this is movie fragments.
We write on iOS devices,
QuickTime movies with movie fragments.
So if you've specified a movie fragment
interval to the AV asset writer or
to the AV capture movie file output,
it will lay down a small header
at the beginning that accounts
for some number of seconds.
By default, it's 10.
And then for every 10
seconds of your movie,
it will lay down a movie fragment.
And if you crash at any point
or are interrupted at any point,
your movie will be safe up to
the point of the last fragment
that was recorded in the movie.
So the most that you
would lose is 10 seconds.
All right,
let's move on to our third capture case,
which is scanning video
frames for patterns using the
flash and video data output.
And to help me with that,
I'd like to call up Valentin Bonnet.
and could we dim the front lights a bit?
Valentin has helped us out a lot
with his summer intern project.
He's written a really cool application
about an emerging technology.
This technology I like to call Lost,
L-O-S-T, or line of sight texting.
Have you ever been in a scenario
where you have no cell coverage but
you'd really like to text a person,
you can see them, but you just,
you can't message them.
There's no Wi-Fi, there's no cell.
Well, wouldn't it be cool if
you could use your iPhone?
You ready for me?
So this line of sight texting business
is using input from a sender phone,
translating it into a new
technology I call Morse code.
and translating it into dots and dashes
that it then uses the LED flash to
reproduce on the receiver side where the
receiver interprets the pulses of light,
turns them back into text and
makes it look like a text message.
Let's go back to slides to
talk about how we did that.
And we can bring up house lights now
unless we want a late afternoon ambiance.
Cool app, huh?
The MorseMe application has
a sender and a receiver side.
And the sender side is
as simple as can be.
It just uses the LED torch.
So all it looks like to
AV Foundation is an AV capture device.
That's it, nothing else.
On the receiver side,
he's using the iPad's back camera.
along with the video data
output to process those frames,
find the light pulses and
turn them back into text.
So that looks like session in the middle.
Device input on top, video data output,
and live video preview.
So let's talk about torch
support in general in iOS 5.
We have three torch modes, off, on,
and auto.
For this app, we were just using on.
He was setting it to on when he
wanted it on and off when he didn't.
You can also use the hasTorch property to
determine if the capture device has one.
Obviously it was going to be a one-sided
conversation because he was using
an iPad and it doesn't have a torch.
You call lock for configuration before
attempting to set the torch mode.
And flashlight apps,
I don't know if I should ask
anyone to raise their hand.
Has anyone written a flashlight app here?
Because you know who you are.
And you know that last year
I stood up here and I told you
not to write flashlight apps
with our LED torch API because it
was only for video illumination.
But you went out and you wrote
your flashlight apps anyway.
And the problem with that
is doing it the old way,
the AV capture session had to be running.
So you were in effect running
a full video pipeline just
to turn the flashlight on.
So you were burning battery
at an alarmingly fast rate.
Well, in iOS 5,
we've altered this so that to use
the LED torch for a flashlight,
you don't need to run
the session anymore.
You can just find the capture device
and turn the LED torch on or off.
We will not run the capture
session in the background.
There's no allocation of buffers.
There's no additional CPU.
So you're only using the power
that would be used by the
LED torch turning on and off.
So that's the problem with that.
So the code shrinks down
to just three lines,
basically.
You lock the device for configuration,
set the torch mode to on,
unlock the device.
That's pretty much all that the sender
side of the MorseMe application did.
We have a couple torch
enhancements in iOS 5 as well,
some availability accessors.
The device housing the torch is a phone.
It has a lot of components
in it that can heat up.
And the torch may become unavailable
as the phone gets too hot.
So you can now key value observe
this isTorchAvailable property
to know if it suddenly becomes so
hot that it needs to cool down.
And so it will tell you when
it's available again as well.
Also,
you can key value observe the TorchLevel
property of the AV Capture device
to know when it's throttling the
actual illumination level of the torch
down because it's getting too hot.
All right, with that,
let's move on to the fourth demo,
which is processing captured
still images using Core Image.
And to demo that,
I'm going to invite some
of my friends up on stage.
Okay, there's StashCam.
Okay, StashCam is a still image
capture application.
Pretty basic.
It does the kinds of things
you would expect it to do.
You can switch between the
front and back cameras.
So there are my friends.
There's me.
You can also take pictures,
as you might expect.
It's doing a little animation when
the capture is supposed to happen.
You can zoom in just like the Camera app,
so we now support digital zoom or
scale and crop and take pictures
of digitally zoomed pictures.
But the killer feature of the
app is that it can detect faces.
So I'm going to turn the
Detect Faces button on.
Okay, so go ahead, Matthew,
turn sideways so that you, so, oh,
it needs two eyes.
Oh, there it comes back.
And it works equally well
on the front camera as well.
My kids have been beta testing
this app for the last week
and it's a hit with them.
Okay, thanks, guys.
All right, how did we do that?
Well,
we used the iPad and the back camera
I was showing you a video
preview while I was superimposing
the funny glasses on top.
and Capturing Still Images.
But everything else that was done,
learning where the faces are,
was done with Core Image.
Core Image is making its iOS debut
in iOS 5 and they have a new class
called CI Face Detector and I'll
talk about that a little bit more.
So from the session standpoint,
it just looks like session, device input,
still image output, video preview layer.
Let's talk about the enhancements for
still images within AV Capture first.
You notice that when
I took a still image,
I flashed the screen.
I could have done a fancier sort of
iris animation or something like that.
But in order to do that and to
have it actually line up with
the picture that's being taken,
you need to know exactly when
the camera is taking the photo.
And that's not instantaneous,
especially on like an iPhone
if it's using the flash,
it might take a minute
for the flash to warm up.
So AV Capture still image
output now has a new property
called isCapturingStillImage.
You can key value observe this
property to know exactly when
the still image is being taken
and you can key your animation,
your iris shutting or your shutter off
of that key value observed property.
There's also another new property called
Subject Area Change Monitoring Enabled,
which is a mouthful.
But what it means is if you
have previously locked focus,
it might be nice to know when the scene
changes enough that you would like to
go back to a continuous focus mode.
So it's great that we let you
continuously focus or lock,
but now we're giving you the ability
to know when things have changed enough
that you might want to focus again.
So once you lock a device,
focus or exposure,
you can start observing this
property and set Subject
Area Change Monitoring Enabled to true.
And once you do that,
you'll be notified when we think
that the picture has changed
drastically or the user has moved.
And then on the receiving side,
we have Core Image and CI filters.
This is their iOS debut, iOS 5,
and there are some great
CI filters available.
There's one for Red Eye Reduction.
There's one for Auto-Enhance,
which is just like the iPhoto
One Touch cleanup button.
It applies a number of good
cleanups to the still image.
There are others as well.
I just called those out.
You can, of course,
do sepia tone and color cube
and other things like that.
Also new is a CI detector class,
which doesn't process the image
to deliver an output image,
but it processes the image to
deliver data about the image.
In our case,
the CI detector is finding faces
and features on those faces.
So the CI image interfaces are great.
They line up well with AV Capture
because they allow you to make a
CI image out of a CV pixel buffer.
So if you get a still image
or a video data output buffer,
you can easily create a core
image CI image object from it.
You do need to specify BGRA output
to be compatible with CI image.
It doesn't work with the
other formats right now.
Here's some code.
This is the main code in
StashCam that finds the faces.
Inside the still image capture button,
I get the sample buffer's image buffer,
so now I have my CVPixel buffer pointer,
and I create a CI image out of it.
And then I create one of
these face detector objects,
giving it some options.
Here I told it CI detector accuracy low,
so it's because I'm a real-time app,
I don't want it to take
forever to find faces.
And then I ask it to
find features in image,
so calling face detector
features in image,
it produces an array of features.
And from those CI face feature objects,
I can find the bounding rectangle,
left eye, right eye, mouth,
and do some interesting things with
how the face is tilted as well.
This is all available
for third-party use.
And I highly encourage you,
if you're interested in
this core image stuff,
to take a look at their session tomorrow,
which is 2:00 PM in Mission.
Let me summarize.
In iOS 5, AV Foundation Capture
gives you more CPU cycles.
In the dramatic OpenGL case,
you saw us getting an
immediate 10 to 15 frames back.
That's huge performance.
There's also a lot of other
performance work we've done under
the hood that require no changes.
And hopefully you'll feel the
performance benefits even if you
don't opt into the GL improvements.
Bridging Core Video and
OpenGL is a key win in iOS 5.
We've exposed more resolutions,
so you can get smaller resolutions
for SIF streaming apps.
Also, if you're doing editing apps,
you now have the option
of iFrame recording.
We've added more flexibility
to still image capture for
doing things like digital zoom,
crop and scale.
And we hope this is going to enable you
to deliver even cooler apps now that you
have more cycles to do those cool things.
So for more information,
please contact Eric Verschen,
our Media Technologies Evangelist
for AV Foundation,
or check out the documentation online.
Also, the developer forums are a great
place to ask questions and have them
answered either by fellow users or
sometimes even by Apple engineers.
Our related sessions have all passed,
but please give them a look
in your iTunes after the show.
Thank you for attending today.
I hope you've had a great session.
Have a great show.